---
order: 01
---

# Create Surface Mesh

## maxEdgeLength
`maxEdgeLength` restricts the global maximum edge length of the cells on the surface mesh.
This value will be overwritten on any face who have a different value for `maxEdgeLength` defined.

## curvatureResolutionAngle
Reducing `curvatureResolutionAngle` will locally refine the mesh near the high-curvature regions, such as the nose of fuselage.
For the medium mesh, we will typically set `curvatureResolutionAngle` between 10 to 15 degrees
For the fine mesh, we will set it as low as 5 degrees.

## growthRate
This is the growth rate of anisotropic layers along the direction orthogonal to the target edges.
Take the leading edge for example, it controls the growth rate of anisotropic cells along the chord-wise direction.
Typically we set the growthRate as 1.2/1.16/1.13 for coarse/medium/fine mesh, respectively.

## edges
The name of edges in the `surfaceMesh.json` file should match the `edgeName` attribute you assigned to the edges in the csm file.

### type
There are 2 types of edges:
1. `aniso`
You will have anisotropic layers along the direction orthogonal to the target edge.
Typically for leading and trailing edges.

2. `projectAnisoSpacing`
The node distribution along the edge will be updated.
The adjacent anisotropic spacing will be projected to the target edge.
Typically for the `C0` airfoils in the middle of your wing/blade.

### method
If you set `type` as `aniso`, then there are 3 methods to prescribe the 1st anisotropic layer:
1. `angle`
Resolves surface curvature along the direction orthogonal to the target edge.
For the medium mesh, we typically set `angle` resolution as 1 degree for the leading edge. 

2. `height`
Directly prescribe the 1st anisotropic layer thickness of the anisotropic cells.

3. `aspectRatio`
The thickness of the 1st anisotropic layer will be automatically calculated to ensure the max aspect ratio does not exceed the given `aspectRatio`.
Typically `aspectRatio` is between 20 to 100.

### value
If you set `type` as `aniso`, after deciding the `method`, now you need to provide the `angle` (in degrees), `height` or `aspectRatio`.

Here is an example:
```
"edges": {
    "leadingEdge":  {
        "type": "aniso",
        "method": "angle",
        "value": 1
    },
    "trailingEdge":  {
        "type": "aniso",
        "method": "height",
        "value": 1e-3
    },
    "hubCircle": {
        "type": "aniso",
        "method": "height",
        "value": 0.1
    },
    "hubSplitEdge": {
        "type": "projectAnisoSpacing"
    }
}
```

For more details, please check our [documentation page](https://docs.flexcompute.com/projects/flow360/en/latest/preprocessing/automatedMeshing/automatedMeshing.html#edges)

## faces
The name of faces in the `surfaceMesh.json` file should match the `faceName` attribute you assigned to the edges in the csm file.

### maxEdgeLength
This value will restrict the local maximum edge length on specific faces.
This overwrites the global `maxEdgeLength` for that face only.

In the following example, the background `maxEdgeLength` is 0.1 and there are extra refinements on `wing` and `flap`.
```
"maxEdgeLength": 0.1,
"faces": {
    "wing": {
        "maxEdgeLength": 0.05
    },
    "flap": {
        "maxEdgeLength": 0.02
    }
}
```