---
order: 01
---

# Generate Volume Mesh Automatically

## refinementFactor
If you set refinementFactor=2, then the number of nodes in the volume mesh will be doubled approximately.

## volume
There are 3 parameters for the volume mesher:  
(1) `firstLayerThickness`: Thickness of the 1st anisotropic layer growing from the surface mesh.  
(2) `growthRate`: Ratio of thicknesses between 2 adjacent layers.  
(3) `gapTreatmentStrength`: A value between 0 and 1, where 0 is no gap treatment and 1 is the strongest gap treatment.
Here are some [screenshots](https://docs.flexcompute.com/projects/flow360/en/latest/preprocessing/automatedMeshing/automatedMeshing.html#json-volume-mesher) illustrating this parameter.

## refinement
Both box and cylinder refinement zones are supported.  
(1) `type`: By default, a `box` refinement zone will be created.  
(2) `center`: Coordinate of geometrical center.  
(3) `spacing`: Target edge length of the cells in the refinement zone.  

### box
In order to define a box refinement zone, you need to provide:  
(4) `size`: Size of the box in x, y and z directions.  
(5) `axisOfRotation`: Axis of rotation for the box.  
(6) `angleOfRotation`: Angle (in degrees) of rotation for the box.

### cylinder
In order to define a cylinder refinement zone, you need to set `type` as `cylinder`. Then you need to provide:  
(7) `radius`: Radius of the cylinder.  
(8) `length`: Length of the cylinder.  
(9) `axis`: Axis of the cylinder.  

Example:
```
"refinement": [
 {
     "size": [4, 3, 2],
     "center": [2, 0, 0],
     "spacing": 0.05,
     "axisOfRotation": [ 0, 0, 1 ],
     "angleOfRotation": 45
 },
 {
     "type": "cylinder",
     "radius": 4,
     "length": 5,
     "center": [5, 0, 0],
     "spacing": 0.05,
     "axis": [1, 0, 0]
 }]
```

For more details, please see [the refinement section](https://docs.flexcompute.com/projects/flow360/en/latest/preprocessing/automatedMeshing/automatedMeshing.html#refinement-list) of our documentation page.

## rotorDisks
If you want to run cases with actuator disks or BET disks, then you will need to add rotorDisks when generating the volume mesh.  
(1) `name`: This is optional, unless you want to enclose this disk in a sliding interface.  
(2) `innerRadius`: If this is greater than 0, then there will be a hole in the middle for your hub.  
(3) `outerRadius`: Typically we would recommend set this value slightly larger than the radius of your blade.  
(4) `thickness`: Thickness of the disk refinement zone, typically set it `0.75 * max{chord}`.  
(5) `axisThrust`: This will be used as the axis of the disk.  
(6) `center`: Coordinates of the disk center.  
(7) `spacingAxial`: Cell edge length along the axial direction. Typically we will have 20~30 layers along the axial/thickness direction.
(8) `spacingRadial`: Typically we will keep `spacingRadial` same as `spacingCircumferential`  
(9) `spacingCircumferential`: Typically we will have 720 cells along the circumferential direction so you can set `spacingCircumferential` roughly `2*PI*outerRadius/720`

Consider a rotor with radius 1.0 (m) and max chord length 0.1 (m).
```
"rotorDisks": [
     {
         "name": "myRotorDisk",
         "innerRadius": 0,
         "outerRadius": 1.25,
         "thickness": 0.075,
         "axisThrust": [1, 0, 0],
         "center": [0, 0, 0],
         "spacingAxial": 4e-3,
         "spacingRadial": 0.01,
         "spacingCircumferential": 0.01
     }
]
```

For more details, please see [the rotorDisks section](https://docs.flexcompute.com/projects/flow360/en/latest/preprocessing/automatedMeshing/automatedMeshing.html#rotordisks-list) of our documentation page.

## slidingInterfaces
(1) `name`: This is optional, unless you want to enclose this sliding interface inside another sliding interface.  
(2) `enclosedObjects`: This tells the mesher which components should be enclosed in this sliding interface.  
(3) `thickness`: You need to ensure the sliding interface is thick enough to enclose not only the blade, but also the hub of your rotor.  
(4) `spacingAxial`: Typically we will have 50~100 cells along the lateral direction of the sliding interface.  
(5) The rest of parameters are quite similar to the `rotorDisk` above.  

Example:
```
"slidingInterfaces": [
    {
        "name": "mySlidingInterface",
        "innerRadius": 0,
        "outerRadius": 1.25,
        "thickness": 0.25,
        "axisOfRotation": [0, 0, 1],
        "center": [0, 0, 0],
        "spacingAxial": 0.0025,
        "spacingRadial": 0.01,
        "spacingCircumferential": 0.01,
        "enclosedObjects": ["rotor"]
    },
```

For more details, please see [the slidingInterfaces section](https://docs.flexcompute.com/projects/flow360/en/latest/preprocessing/automatedMeshing/automatedMeshing.html#slidinginterfaces-list) of our documentation page.