---
order: 01
---

# Geometry

## Mesh Unit
The Mesh Unit is the length unit used in the mesh file. It can be m (meter), cm (centimeter), mm (millimeter), inch, or feet. Used to calculate $L_{gridUnit}$ which is the length in meters of one grid unit, e.g. $L_{gridUnit}=0.001m$ for grid unit mm.

## Reference area
  
The Reference Area, is used to non-dimensionalize lift coefficient (CL), drag coefficient (CD), force, and moment coefficients. For example:

$$CL = Lift / (1/2 * \rho_{\infty} * U_{ref}^2 * Reference Area)$$
$$CD = Drag / (1/2 * \rho_{\infty} * U_{ref}^2 * Reference Area)$$
$$CFx = X Force / (1/2 * \rho_{\infty} * U_{ref}^2 * Reference Area)$$
$$CFy = Y Force / (1/2 * \rho_{\infty} * U_{ref}^2 * Reference Area)$$
$$CFz = Z Force / (1/2 * \rho_{\infty} * U_{ref}^2 * Reference Area)$$

Here, $\rho_{\infty}$ is the freestream density and $U_{ref}$ is the reference velocity calculated by $U_{ref} = MachRef * C_{\infty}$,
where $C_{\infty}$ is the freestream speed of sound, and by default, the reference Mach number, `MachRef`, is set to be equal to the freestream 
Mach number, `Mach`. However, when `Mach`$=0$, `MachRef` needs to be specified explicitly. 
In this case, it is equivalent to an explicitly set non-zero reference velocity in the next section for freestream parameters. Note, that reference area, `refArea`, as input to the JSON file is non-dimensionalized by $L_{gridUnit}^2$.
			  
## Moment Center

The Moment Center is the location about which all aerodynamic moments are calculated.

For example:
1. A positive z-directional force acting at an x-coordinate greater than the x-coordinate of the Moment Center would generate a negative y-moment.
2. A positive x-directional force acting at an z-coordinate greater than the z-coordinate of the Moment Center would generate a positive y-moment.
3. A positive x-directional force acting at an y-coordinate greater than the y-coordinate of the Moment Center would generate a negative z-moment.
4. A positive y-directional force acting at an x-coordinate greater than the x-coordinate of the Moment Center would generate a positive z-moment.
5. A positive y-directional force acting at an z-coordinate greater than the z-coordinate of the Moment Center would generate a negative x-moment.
6. A positive z-directional force acting at an y-coordinate greater than the y-coordinate of the Moment Center would generate a positive x-moment.

## Moment Length

The moment reference lengths are used to non-dimensionalize moment coefficients, according to the definitions below. For example:

$$CMx = Mx / (1/2 * \rho_{\infty} * U_{ref}^2 * (refArea * momentLength_x))$$
$$CMy = My / (1/2 * \rho_{\infty} * U_{ref}^2 * (refArea * momentLength_y))$$
$$CMz = Mz / (1/2 * \rho_{\infty} * U_{ref}^2 * (refArea * momentLength_z))$$ 

Here, $(Mx, My, Mz)$ are the moment components with respect to the Moment Center, $\rho_{\infty}$ is the freestream density.
Notably, $U_{ref}$ is the reference velocity calculated by $U_{ref} = MachRef * C_{\infty}$, where $C_{\infty}$ is the freestream speed of sound.
By default, the reference Mach number, `MachRef`, is set to be equal to the freestream Mach number (`Mach`). 
However, when `Mach==0`, `MachRef` needs to be specified explicitly. 
In this case, it is equivalent to an explicitly set non-zero reference velocity in the next section for freestream parameters.
