---
order: 08
---

# Volume Output

## Output format

- `tecplot`: exports `*.szplt` files
- `paraview`: exports `*.vtu` files

## Primitive Variables
	
These primitive flow variables (rho, u, v, w, p) will be output from Flow360 solver. Note that values are non-dimensional.
	
## Vorticity

Outputs non-dimensional vorticity. Non-dimensionalised by $C_{\inf}/L_{gridUnit}$

## Cp

Coefficient of pressure defined by $Cp = (p - p_{\inf})/(0.5 * \rho_{\inf} * U_{ref}^2)$.
  
## Mach

Outputs Mach number.

## Q criterion

This is one of several mathematical criteria that are used to identify vortices and vortical flow structures associated with them. The quantity of Q is the second invariant of velocity gradient tensor.

The Q criterion was originally proposed by Hunt et al. (1988). It identifies the vortices as flow regions with positive Q values. An additional condition is that the pressure in the eddy region should be lower than the ambient pressure. Chakraborty et al. (2005) explained that in an incompressible flow, Q is a local measure of the excess rotation rate relative to the strain rate. In practical terms, a vortex is detected in the case of Q>0. 

As a rule of thumb, to visualize vortical structures in a flow field for an aeronautical application, plot iso-surfaces of a finite small positive threshold on Q values. For example, a threshold roughly equals to $(Ma/L)^2$, where $Ma$ is freestream Mach number, and $L$ is non-dimensional reference length.

*Reference: [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.softx.2020.100604](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.softx.2020.100604) for more details.*
