# BET disk translators
We provide two different readers that accept common input files from either [xrotor](https://https://web.mit.edu/drela/Public/web/xrotor/) or [DFDC](https://web.mit.edu/drela/Public/web/dfdc/) and convert the contents of those files into the BET disk input data required by Flow360.
More information on the data required by Flow360 to run a BET disk simulation can be found in the [documentation](https://docs.simulation.cloud/projects/flow360/en/latest/solverConfiguration/solverConfiguration.html#betdisks-list)

## XROTOR translator
Xrotor is a very common low fidelity rotor analysis code that provides high level performance insights for isolated rotors. A logical next step in the design and analysis process is to use Flow360's BET disk functionality. To that end we have provided a simple translator that extracts all the propeller features (blade geometry, twist and chord distribution, 2D foil sectional polars etc...) from the xrotor input file and converts them into the data format required by Flow360. 
Please note that certain information required by Flow360 is not provided by the xrotor input file and need to be entered. Also, Certain parameters are defined both in the Flow360 input file and in the xrotor input file (i.e. Freestream inflow speed, number of blades, RPM etc...). In that case the xrotor input values are ignored. 


## DFDC translator
Since xrotor and dfdc are both from the same family of codes, their input formats are very similar. Everything mentioned above for xrotor is also valid for dfdc.
Please note that dfdc is meant to simulate ducted fans. The duct part of the DFDC input file will NOT be used. If you want to simulate a ducted fan with a BET disk in Flow360 then you will need to mesh the duct geometry and have the BET disk in the correct location within the duct.  

The extra inputs required by Flow360 are:
- **center of rotation**: Where in the mesh would you like to put this particular BET disk. This is in Mesh units
- **Axis of rotation**: rotational axis of the BET disk, i.e. (+) thrust axis
- **Rotation Direction rule**:Does the propeller rotate around the Axis of rotation using the right hand rule or the left hand rule?
- **RPM**: Revolutions per minute of the propeller. The value defined in the xrotor or dfdc files are ignored.
- **Number of Blades**: The value defined in the xrotor or dfdc files are ignored.
- **Radius**: Propeller radius in mesh units
- **Thickness**:This parameter dictates over what thickness (in mesh units) the extra momentum is applied to the mesh nodes. Practically speaking this value should be near the thickness of the propeller along the thrust axis. It is important that the mesh has enough nodes in the thrust axis direction across that thickness (we recommend at least 20 nodes). If the mesh refinement is too coarse then the extra momentum added by the BET disk implementation is divided across too few nodes and this may cause the solution to diverge. The more momentum the propeller adds to the flow the more this becomes important.   
- **Chord Ref**: In mesh units. This is the reference chord used in the BET output information to get sectional loadings. See the [BET loading output](https://docs.simulation.cloud/projects/flow360/en/latest/capabilities/bladeElementTheoryModel/bladeElementTheoryModel.html?highlight=20#bet-loading-output) section of the documentation.
- **nLoadingNodes**: Number of spanwise nodes used to compute the sectional thrust and torque coefficients defined in [BET loading output](https://docs.simulation.cloud/projects/flow360/en/latest/capabilities/bladeElementTheoryModel/bladeElementTheoryModel.html?highlight=20#bet-loading-output). Recommended value is 20.
- **Tip Gap**: This parameter affects the tip loss effect. It is the non-dimensional distance between the blade tips and multiple peripheral instances, e.g. duct, shroud, cowling, nacelle, etc. The peripheral structures must be effective at reducing blade tip vortices.  Being close to a fuselage or to another blade does not affect this parameter, because they won’t effectively reduce tip loss. tipGap=0 means there is no tip loss. It is infinity by
 default for open propellers. An example with finite tipGap would be a ducted fan.
- **Is steady?**: Steady state vs unsteady, i.e. time accurate run. 


