# Simulation

Contains all information about Tidy3D simulation.

## Simulation Domain

`center`: Center of object in x, y, and z. 

Type: floating-point number

-   Unit: $\mu$m
-   Default: (*0*, *0*, *0*)

`size`: Size in x, y, and z directions. 

Type: floating-point number

-   Unit: $\mu$m
-   Constraint: greater than or equal to *0*
-   Required field

## Run Time

`run_time`: Total electromagnetic evolution time in seconds. 

Note: If simulation [shutoff](/01.Simulation.html#shutoff-condition) is specified, simulation will terminate early when shutoff condition met.

Type: floating-point number

-   Unit: sec
-   Constraint: greater than *0*
-   Required field


## Symmetry

`symmetry`: Defining reflection symmetry across a plane bisecting the simulation domain normal to the x-, y-, and z-axis, respectvely. 

Note: The vectorial nature of the fields must be taken into account to correctly determine the symmetry value.

Options:
-   *No symmetry* (*0* in Simulation JSON) 
-   *Even, i.e. \'PMC\' symmetry* (*1* in Simulation JSON)
-   *Odd, i.e. \'PEC\' symmetry* (*-1* in Simulation JSON)

Default: *No symmetry*


## Structures

`structures`: List of structures present in simulation. 

Note: Structures defined later in this list override the simulation material properties in regions of spatial overlap.

See: [Structure](/02.Structure.html)

## Sources

`sources`: List of electric current sources injecting fields into the simulation.

Options:

-   [PointDipole](/05.source/01.source%20type/PointDipole.html)
-   [UniformCurrentSource](/05.source/01.source%20type/UniformCurrentSource.html)
-   [PlaneWave](/05.source/01.source%20type/PlaneWave.html)
-   [ModeSource](/05.source/01.source%20type/ModeSource.html)
-   [GaussianBeam](/05.source/01.source%20type/GaussianBeam.html)
-   [AstigmaticGaussianBeam](/05.source/01.source%20type/AstigmaticGaussianBeam.html)

## Monitors

`monitors`: List of monitors in the simulation. Note: monitor names are used to access data after simulation is run.

Options:

-   [FieldMonitor](/06.monitor/FieldMonitor.html)
-   [FieldTimeMonitor](/06.monitor/FieldTimeMonitor.html)
-   [FluxMonitor](/06.monitor/FluxMonitor.html)
-   [FluxTimeMonitor](/06.monitor/FluxTimeMonitor.html)
-   [ModeMonitor](/06.monitor/ModeMonitor.html)
-   [ModeFieldMonitor](/06.monitor/ModeFieldMonitor.html)
-   [PermittivityMonitor](/06.monitor/PermittivityMonitor.html)

## Grid Specification

Specifications for the simulation grid along each of the three directions.

See: [GridSpec](/08.grid/01.GridSpec.html)

## Boundary Condition

`boundary_spec`: Specification of boundary conditions along each dimension.

See: [BoundarySpec](/07.boundary/01.BoundarySpec.html)

## Shutoff Condition

`shutoff`: Ratio of the instantaneous integrated E-field intensity to the maximum value at which the simulation will automatically terminate time stepping. Used to prevent extraneous run time of simulations with fully decayed fields. 

Note: Set to *0* to disable this feature.

Type: floating-point number

-   Unit: unitless
-   Constraint: greater than or equal to *0*
-   Default: *1e-5*


## Subpixel Averaging

`subpixel`: If *True*, uses subpixel averaging of the permittivity based on structure definition, resulting in much higher accuracy for a given grid size.

Type: Boolean

-   Default: *True*

## Courant Factor

`courant`: Courant stability factor, controls time step to spatial step ratio. Lower values lead to more stable simulations for dispersive materials, but result in longer simulation times.

Type: floating-point number

-   Unit: unitless
-   Constraint: (*0*, *1*]
-   Default: *0.9*
